just kind of put everything into a PowerPoint so that I can show you what's wrong, what also show you where the correct math comes from.  Hopefully it doesn't get too confusing, but you can let me know if it does. So for the first example, I just said something very simple. where I say we want 10 of our mutant 10 of our wild type, the sex doesn't matter. I picked a random gene.  I did a flaxed and said our starting material was heads because this is pretty common to how we would actually start. So then this pops out, this screen. The first thing I notice is that the genotypes up here don't match the genotypes down here.  This could be a little bit confusing. I think that either we need to be on the same page and use plus mutant here or use mutant down to flaxed out here. I think using mutant across the board would be easier so that whether it's a flax model or a knockout or any other model, it becomes a lot easier.  So that would be like my first recommendation is making sure that this up here matches down here. And still on this pane, the expected offspring, the statistics are correct, but everything is put in as not needed. We said that the mutant mutants were going to be our experimental genotype and that the Wype, the plus plus we're going to be our controls.  So I think that the bars here should represent up from the key up here, the experimental and the control. And I also think that they should be blue to show that they're being kept, according to this, we're not keeping anything, which obviously isn't true. The one generation to target Gotype is correct.  And then this to me, all the math is, and the genotyping frequency, these two boxes are corrected as a 25% frequency for the targeted genotype. But then the breeder, the pups, and the estimated timeline to me is a little bit excessive For starters, we have 15 breeding pairs, which they say gives us 105 mice. After playing around with numbers, I figured out that this comes from down here where you say average liter size six to eight pups.  They use seven as the average So 15 times seven is going to give us that 105. It does not take into account. The 80% breeding efficiency.  So the 80% breeding efficiency is mentioned, but not used, which to me, is wrong. So then that means that the generate the 105 mice being generated is also higher, and the timeline is a bit off to me. It should be six to nine weeks max.  So kind of where do I get all of this math from? So this is kind of a breakdown. So the frequency of home and wild take from a head-at meeting is 25%.  That was good. So then I take the 10 divided by the frequency and we get 40, which means that we need to generate 40 pups in order for 10 of them to be home and 10 of them to be wide type. These assumptions are good.  They just need to actually be used. So the six to eight pups per litter with 80% mating frequency is correct, but it needs to actually be used. And then in-house, we always start with the lower end so that we know we're producing enough pups.  So we take the 40, we divide it by the six pups that we would expect to see on the lower end of the average. You get six M change for the breeders. We take that six and change and we divide it again by 80% so that we can include the efficiency. and we get eight and change for the breeders.  So in-house, we would round this up to nine to make sure that we have everything that we need in order to set it up. This would be one generation to genotype, but the it would be nine estimated breeding pairs. And if I use the same number seven for the average between six and eight, like AI is currently using, we would have 50 mice estimated as a total number of mice created.  B2.6 home or the mutut as AI is calling it. 25.2 Mutant Plus as AI calls it. 12.6 wild type or plus plus as AI is calling it.  The generation should really be six to nine weeks. The mouse has a three-week generation gestation period. Three weeks post- gestation, they wean from the mom.  And at this point, they are viable experimental mice. And then three weeks post wean that mice could make. So that's where the 6 to 9 comes from rather than that 10.  And that's kind of an average across the board in terms of every generation. It doesn't matter what the Gemotype is. The generation for the time period is going to stake relatively the same.  Then I come here, and this is the same thing, except now I'm going to switch it to be that the sex is only males, so we're only going to have one sex. So this is hypothetically going to double everything, which you see here, the generations of genotypes stays one, the frequency stays 25. That's true.  But again, these numbers, I think, are ove inflated. And the same thing in terms of the mutant being used versus flax being used, that to me is a little bit confusing, especially if somebody's using this because they don't know much about breeding, as well as the color coordination is off, because everything's labeled as not needed versus the mute mute should be experimental plus, plus should be the control and they should be blue because they their mice that will be kept. And then here the math it looks relatively the same as it did before.  So we have the frequency of the home and the wild type is 25%. The only difference is that now we're going to take 25% for the all frequency, and we're going to multiply that by 50% for the sex frequency because we're only keeping one sex. So now we're going to drop to a 12.5% outcome.  So we take the same thing. We want 10 mice. We divide them by that 12.5% outcome, and we get 80.  So this means we need 80 pups to generate 10 home and 10 wild type of a single sex. Using the same assumptions of six to eight pups per litter with an 80% mate frequency, we're going to take 80 divided by six and get a little over 13 breeders. We take 13 little over 13 breeders, and we divide it by 80% efficiency, and this means we need to set up a little bit more than 16 breeders.  Obviously, we can't work with decimals when it comes to the mice, so I would round up to 17. Again, I always start with the lower end as my numbers, when I determining the number of breeders to make sure that in the end, we have enough. So that's where the 17 comes from.  So you can see 17 versus 29, Pretty significant difference. We have one generation genotype, 17 estimated breeding pairs, unless we give us 95.2, we're round to 95 estimated mice. If we use seven as an average like AI is currently using, So here's our outcomes, so we get 23.8 homes within that 23.8, 11.9, or 11.  Because again, we're probably, we don't get decimals of a mouse. We'll be male and 11 will be female. And then the same thing down here for the wild types of the plus plus, 11.9 and 11.9 for each sex.  Again, I round it now, down, so it's 11 and 11. You can see these numbers satisfy the need for the 10. and give us a tiny bit of wiggle room. The timeline remains the same because it's still just one generation to genotype.  So again, it should be six to nine weeks, three weeks for the gestation, three weeks they wean at this point, they' experimental mice. But we could also say an additional three weeks because that's when they would be of mating age. So these are two kind of straightforward, simple examples.  So next, I did an example where we're going to use two different alleles. So here's that same condition, I' not got allel, and then here I use a C driver. This is also a very common form of breeding plan, but you will see that AI gets it very wrong for this.  So my experimental genotype, I wanted to be homosis for the conditional knockout. So the mute mute and I wanted to be positive for the transgene, so TG plus my stick with 10 so that our numbers stay across the same. And we're going to use any sex to make this a little bit more simple because this is going to be kind of difficult to explain.  And then here from my control genotype, I want them to be completely wild type, so I don't have the conditional knockout, nor do I have the trans gene, so they're totally wild type. And again, we'll use 10 and any sex so that it's comparable to the experimental group. Again, starting up here, we have that confusion of the Flaxer mutants, so we want to either make this be plus mutant or make these be Flax flax when it comes to labeling the colors are wrong in the scenario we would again be keeping the mute mutes and the plus pluses.  So these should be blue for keepers and the sidebar should be the sides for experimental and control. The next glaring thing that is wrong is that AI tells us that it will only take two generations. It will take three generations.  If you look at generation 2, it says that they're taking a flax flax, which would be equivalent to the mute mute, and this is where you can see using two different types of annotations gets really confusing. But they take a flax flax and they made it to a flax flax with the transene. But we haven't made this mouse yet, according to this breeding plan, right?  Up here, it tells us that we get mute mutes, which would be the flax flax, that's good, but nowhere do you see anything about the introduction of this trans gene, which would be why this is incorrect. That's why we need a second genet. But that's why we need three generations total so that in generation two, we can make this genocype and then in generation three, we get to what we actually want.  So down here, the estimated resources box, this should be three generations to target the genotype. And then before I comment on why all of these other numbers are wrong, I'm just going to kind of go across and show, you the math because I get this gets very confusing, especially because it is three generations. I do like this warning and I think it's great that the warning tells you that the Alicia will hurt and the pre-expression tissues, especially since the exact example that I put in here is a tissue specific thing.  So this is very good that I AI recognizees this as a warning, but the math is all right. So this is kind of an attempt for me to give you an overview that hopefully AI can learn why it's wrong. So if we want to generate 10 mutants with the transgene, aKA homozyus mice with the cre trans gene, the frequency of the desire gotype is going to be 25%.  For the purposes of teaching AI, I included upon its square here, where green is the desire Gotype, and you can see two out of eight in a readinging will have them, aka one4, akaa 25%. This is the these are the, when you meet them, how it comes to be, and this is just the genenotypes in the way that AI has been calling them, as well as the fact that here I have big ends standing for mutant little N standing for plus big C standing for TG plus and a little C represents TG minus. Hopefully my computer doesn't die on me here.  So the math would be 10 divided by this should be 0.25. That's an error on me. equals 40. This means we need 40 pups to generate the 10 that we want at the final generation.  Overall, this is going to take approximately 27 weeks because we have three generations times those nine weeks per generation. That's where the 27 comes from. In the scenario, the reach mating age, since there are multiple generations, that's why I don't have the six to nine range.  It is strictly approximately 27 weeks. Overall, between all three generurations, we have three generations till we target. There's going to be 19 breeders set up.  And if we use the average of seven, like we have been, there will be 107 pups generated 106 pups generated across the board. So in Generation 1, we're going to have our goal is to generate nine homes and nine wild types of any sex that should actually say, yeah, of any sex, the frequency is 25%. The 9 divided by 0.25 equals6.  So then here's the maths again of the 68 pups within 80% breeding efficiency. So 36 divided by6 equals 6 breeders, divided by the 80% efficiency is 7.5. We're going to round up to 8.  So for generation 1, we're going to have eight breeders. 44.8 mice generated 11.2 will be homes. And from these homes, we're going to use two for generation 2 meetings and nine for Generation 3 meetings.  22.4 ahead, these we don't need at all. And 11.2 mice will be the wild take control that we need. This year takes nine weeks, one third of the generation period, which is where our total timeline of 27 comes from.  In generation 2, we're going to take nine mice that are heterzzygous with crease that means that they're mutant plus for NQO2 and transgene positive is what we're going to be generating. The frequency of the alial is going to be 100%, assuming that we can get hemiszygis mice bought from a vendor. So 91 equals 9, so we need nine pups to get the nine pups that we want.  It's six to eight pups per litter and 80%. M frequency, so nine divided by six is 1.5 pers, 1.5 divided 80% efficiency is 1.875 breeders that gets set up. Obviously, we're going to round that up to two.  So for generation two, there's two estimated breeding pair is needed. The scheme here is going to be very important. So we're going to have NQO mutant mutant transg negative, so those are the homes that we made and Generation 1.. crossed with NQO, positive, positive, transg positive.  These are the mice that we're assuming we can buy from a vender. So this gives us 11.2 mice if we use seven as an average. So obviously we end up with 11 of the desired outcome.  Again, this will take nine weeks for us to do. So now we're up to 18 out of the 27 weeks in my timeline I proposed have been accounted for. In generation 3, the goal is going to be to generate 10 mutant mutant trans positive, ak.  Holmes with C. The frequency of this is going to be 25% as represented in the punit square when I initially started to give you an overview, the genotyping. So if we take 10 divided by 0.25, that gets 40.  That means we need 40 pups to generate 10 mutant mutant transient positive. But 68 pups per litter with an 80% frequency, we're going to need to make a set of 8.33 breeders, which will round up to 9. So for Generation 3, there's nine estimated breeding pairs needed.  The scheme here is going to be very important. It's going to be NQO2, Mutant Plus, comma Trans Pus. That's from generation 2, Crossed with NQO2 mutant Mutant Transgene negative.  That's from generation 1. So generation 2, Mice crossed for generation 1 mice. That will give us 50.4 or 50 estimated total mice.  If we use seven, which will give us 12.6 of our desired outcome. This again will take nine weeks, so this is where 27 of 27 comes from in that timeline. This gets very complex because you need AI needs to know how to efficiently use crematings.  It's always very important when it comes to mating with K that you always mate back to something that's clean. We cannot mate this generation 2 by generation 2 because that would not give us a clean offspring. This is where kind of teaching AI the rules of mating becomes important.  I can send you links to Jax or Charles River, which are big places that we can get this data from if you need exact mating rules to set into AI as well, but you could let me know this is kind of just a starting point.